# Pharmaceuticals_challenge
Patrick Nartey
Data Analytic Bootcamp
06-03-2023     

Background
This data analytic analysis focuses on a new pharmaceutical company that specializes in anti- cancer medications. The company just began screening for cancerous cells related to skin cancer.
Complete data has been made available to the senior data analyst at the company. various drug regimens were applied to 249 mice identified with SCC tumors. Tumor development in the mice were measured and studied over a 45-day period. The aim of the study is to compare Capomulin, the pharmaceutical company’s drug of interest against other drug regimen.
Two datasets namely Mouse_metadata and study_results were merged. The mouse data contains the following variable Mouse ID, Drug regimen, sex, age month and weight of mice. The variables contained in the study results data are mouse ID, timepoint, tumor volume and metastatic sites. A total of 249 mice were subjected to 10 different drug regimens. Tables, and various graphs were plotted for observations and inferences.  Study results and findings could be referenced from the git hub repository folder.

Procedure for analysis
The two data sets were loaded and merged using pandas functionalities. Various codes and commands were used to extract desired results. The following libraries were also used
	Import pandas as pd
	Import numpy as np
	Import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
	Import scipy.stats as st

 Analysis and Conclusion from Bar, Line, Scatter, and Pie plots
Observation about Bar Chart.
•	Ten drug regimen treatments were used in the study,  Capomulin drug regimen was used on the highest number of mice. Proprivia drug regimen was applied on the least number of mice in the study.
Observation about Boxplot
•	The boxplot depicts lower trends for Capomulin and Ramicane
In reference to correlation between Capomulin and average weight and final tumor volume, the 0.84 correlation value attests that there is a strong positive correlation between the two variables.
Observation from Line Graph
# Tumor volume got to its peak at 45.8 when timepoint is 5 days during capomulin treatment
# There was a sharp decline in tumor volume at 10 days timepoint during capomulin treatment
# From a timepoint of 25 days, tumor volume decline drastically to 36, it then increased to 39 above time point of 40 days



References: During the course of this analysis, I visted other coding websites for assistance. I also made use of office hours and tutoring  sessions. Often times when i get stucked I reached out to colleagues for assistance.
Data generated by MockarooLinks to an external site., LLC (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
